Homemade Soft Pretzels Recipe | Alton Brown | Food Network Watch Full Seasons TV Schedule Newsletters Videos Cooking Classes Subscribe to Food Network Magazine See Recipes From the Magazine Shows A-Z Chefs A-Z Food Network on HBO Max Recipes Meals Breakfast Lunch Dinner Healthy Appetizers Side Dishes Main Dishes See All → Ingredients Chicken Turkey Beef Pork Fish Shellfish Rice Pasta Vegetables See All → Dinners Quick & Easy Slow Cooker Sheet Pan Casseroles One-Pot 30-Minute Dinners 7 Ingredients or Less See All → Tips & Techniques Instant Pot Air Fryer Grilling Product Reviews How-Tos From Our Test Kitchen See All Recipes Shows Shows TV Schedule See TV Schedule See All Shows Shows 24 in 24: Last Chef Standing BBQ Brawl Chopped Castaways Flavortown Food Fight The Ultimate Baking Championship Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives Chefs Chefs Chefs & Hosts Kardea Brown Ree Drummond Ina Garten Sunny Anderson Bobby Flay Jet Tila Guy Fieri Molly Yeh See All Chefs Food News Food News FN Dish Newsletters The Latest Oreo Is Releasing a Limited-Edition Flavor with BTS Kraft Just Launched a Lactose-Free Cheese Line A Popular Bar Is Finally Getting a Protein Boost A Popular Ice Cream Brand Has Issued a Recall Across 17 States 20 Restaurant Deals To Snag for Memorial Day Shop Shop Product Reviews Gift Ideas Shop Everything Newsletter Shopping Experts Shop Now What's New 30 Best Gifts for Anyone Who Loves Grilling The Healthiest Chips You Can Buy, According to a Dietitian A Popular Bar Is Finally Getting a Protein Boost 6 Best Burger Presses of 2026, Tested and Reviewed The 20 Best Memorial Day Kitchen Sales to Shop Right Now Sweepstakes Sweepstakes All Sweepstakes + Contests Enter the HGTV Smart Home 2026 Giveaway Enter for Your Chance to Win $5,000 What's on TV About About Editorial Standards Newsletters More About Us About the Food Network Kitchen Our Healthy Eating Standards Meet Our Product Testing Experts Home Recipes Breakfast Eggs Hard Boiled Eggs Prev Recipe Next Recipe Replay Video We're sorry, there seems to be an issue playing this video. Please refresh the page or try again in a moment. If you continue to have issues, please contact us here . WATCH Loading Video... Homemade Soft Pretzels Recipe courtesy of Alton Brown Recipe courtesy of Alton Brown Show: Good Eats Episode: Pretzel Logic Homemade Soft Pretzels Getting reviews... Level: Intermediate Total: 1 hr 55 min Prep: 30 min Inactive: 1 hr Cook: 25 min Yield: 8 pretzels Nutrition Info Save Recipe Pinterest Email Level: Intermediate Total: 1 hr 55 min Prep: 30 min Inactive: 1 hr Cook: 25 min Yield: 8 pretzels Nutrition Info Ingredients Deselect All 1 1/2 cups warm (110 to 115 degrees F) water 1 tablespoon sugar 2 teaspoons kosher salt 1 package active dry yeast 22 ounces all-purpose flour, approximately 4 1/2 cups 2 ounces unsalted butter, melted Vegetable oil, for pan 10 cups water 2/3 cup baking soda 1 large egg yolk beaten with 1 tablespoon water Pretzel salt Add to Shopping List View Shopping List Ingredient Substitutions Directions WATCH Watch how to make this recipe. Combine the water, sugar and kosher salt in the bowl of a stand mixer and sprinkle the yeast on top. Allow to sit for 5 minutes or until the mixture begins to foam. Add the flour and butter and, using the dough hook attachment, mix on low speed until well combined. Change to medium speed and knead until the dough is smooth and pulls away from the side of the bowl, approximately 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the dough from the bowl, clean the bowl and then oil it well with vegetable oil. Return the dough to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap and sit in a warm place for approximately 50 to 55 minutes or until the dough has doubled in size. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Line 2 half-sheet pans with parchment paper and lightly brush with the vegetable oil. Set aside. Bring the 10 cups of water and the baking soda to a rolling boil in an 8-quart saucepan or roasting pan. In the meantime, turn the dough out onto a slightly oiled work surface and divide into 8 equal pieces. Roll out each piece of dough into a 24-inch rope. Make a U-shape with the rope, holding the ends of the rope, cross them over each other and press onto the bottom of the U in order to form the shape of a pretzel. Place onto the parchment-lined half sheet pan. Place the pretzels into the boiling water, 1 by 1, for 30 seconds. Remove them from the water using a large flat spatula. Return to the half sheet pan, brush the top of each pretzel with the beaten egg yolk and water mixture and sprinkle with the pretzel salt. Bake until dark golden brown in color, approximately 12 to 14 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack for at least 5 minutes before serving. Tools You May Need Price and stock may change after publish date, and we may make money off these links. Tools You May Need Price and stock may change after publish date, and we may make money off these links. My Private Notes Add a Note WATCH Show: Good Eats Episode: Pretzel Logic More from: Kickoff Snacks Looking for Something Else? Healthy Highly Rated 5 Ingredients or Less Surprise Me Soft Pretzels Soft Pretzels with Queso Poblano Sauce and Mustard Sauce Soft Pretzels Homemade Thanksgiving Gravy 👩‍🍳 What's Cooking 50 Easy Dinner Recipes Everyone Will Love Our 100 Best Slow Cooker Recipes 47 Pasta Recipes With Tons of Glowing, 5-Star Ratings Discover More Recipes... Shop With Us 5 Best Vacuum Sealers, Tested and Reviewed 9 Best Air Fryers, Tested and Reviewed 8 Best Coffeemakers, Tested and Reviewed Our Newsletter Subscribe to our Recipe of the Day newsletter to get Food Network's best ideas for breakfast, lunch, dinner and dessert delivered to your inbox daily. By entering your email address, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy Policy . Food Network and its affiliates may use your email address to provide updates, ads, and offers. Sign Up To withdraw your consent or learn more about your rights, see the Privacy Policy . Healthy Eating 12 Days of Cookies 7 Days to Eating More Protein Food Network Favorites Food.com Eats of the Week Thanksgiving Countdown Food.com Recipe of the Day Food Network Veggie Eats Trending Eats Food Network Shopping Food Network Kitchen Sweepstakes Updates Sign Up for More No Thanks Related Pages Soft Pretzels Baked Meatballs Homemade Hard Pretzels Good Eats Meatloaf Lentil Soup Fried Chicken Chicken Fried Steak Gazpacho Sirloin Steak Site Map Visitor Agreement AdChoices Privacy Policy About Newsroom Advertise Help TV Ratings Online Closed Captioning Accessibility Newsletters Discovery, Inc. Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information International Editions United States Asia Brazil Canada Europe, Middle East & Africa United Kingdom Latin America The Discovery Family of Networks HGTV Food.com Travel Channel TLC.com Discovery.com Cooking Channel © 2026 Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights reserved.