Homemade Ho-Hos Recipe | Food Network Watch Full Seasons TV Schedule Newsletters Videos Cooking Classes Subscribe to Food Network Magazine See Recipes From the Magazine Shows A-Z Chefs A-Z Food Network on HBO Max Recipes Meals Breakfast Lunch Dinner Healthy Appetizers Side Dishes Main Dishes See All → Ingredients Chicken Turkey Beef Pork Fish Shellfish Rice Pasta Vegetables See All → Dinners Quick & Easy Slow Cooker Sheet Pan Casseroles One-Pot 30-Minute Dinners 7 Ingredients or Less See All → Tips & Techniques Instant Pot Air Fryer Grilling Product Reviews How-Tos From Our Test Kitchen See All Recipes Shows Shows TV Schedule See TV Schedule Tournament of Champions 6am | 5c Tournament of Champions 7am | 6c Guy's Grocery Games 8am | 7c Guy's Grocery Games 9am | 8c Guy's Grocery Games 10am | 9c Guy's Grocery Games 11am | 10c Guy's Grocery Games 12pm | 11c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 1pm | 12c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 1:30pm | 12:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 2pm | 1c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives: Triple D Nation 2:30pm | 1:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 3pm | 2c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 3:30pm | 2:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 4pm | 3c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 4:30pm | 3:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 5pm | 4c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 5:30pm | 4:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives: Triple D Nation 6pm | 5c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 6:30pm | 5:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives: Triple D Nation 7pm | 6c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 7:30pm | 6:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 8pm | 7c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 8:30pm | 7:30c On Tonight Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 9pm | 8c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 9:30pm | 8:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 10pm | 9c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 10:30pm | 9:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 11pm | 10c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 11:30pm | 10:30c On Now Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 12am | 11c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 12:30am | 11:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 1am | 12c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 1:30am | 12:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 2am | 1c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 2:30am | 1:30c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 3am | 2c Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives 3:30am | 2:30c Carnival Eats 4am | 3c Carnival Eats 4:30am | 3:30c See All Shows Shows 24 in 24: Last Chef Standing BBQ Brawl Chopped Castaways Flavortown Food Fight The Ultimate Baking Championship Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives Chefs Chefs Chefs & Hosts Kardea Brown Ree Drummond Ina Garten Sunny Anderson Bobby Flay Jet Tila Guy Fieri Molly Yeh See All Chefs Food News Food News FN Dish Newsletters The Latest A Popular Ice Cream Brand Has Issued a Recall Across 17 States 20 Restaurant Deals To Snag for Memorial Day Wishbone Kitchen Creator Meredith Hayden Actually Prefers Store-Bought Pasta Yes, Dunkin' Is Bringing Back Its Viral Beverage Buckets The Makers of GoGo Squeez Are Launching Protein Snacks Shop Shop Product Reviews Gift Ideas Shop Everything Newsletter Shopping Experts Shop Now What's New 6 Best Burger Presses of 2026, Tested and Reviewed The 20 Best Memorial Day Kitchen Sales to Shop Right Now 12 Top Kitchen Essentials From Chef Jet Tila's Kitchenware Line 7 Best Soup Makers of 2026, Tested and Reviewed The 9 Healthiest Fruit Snacks, According to a Nutritionist Sweepstakes Sweepstakes All Sweepstakes + Contests Enter the HGTV Smart Home 2026 Giveaway Enter for Your Chance to Win $5,000 What's on TV About About Editorial Standards Newsletters More About Us About the Food Network Kitchen Our Healthy Eating Standards Meet Our Product Testing Experts Log In Sign Up Contact Us Home Recipes Dessert Cake Prev Recipe Next Recipe Homemade Ho-Hos Recipe courtesy of Gale Gand Recipe courtesy of Gale Gand Show: Sweet Dreams Episode: Blasts from the Past Homemade Ho-Hos Getting reviews... Level: Intermediate Total: 3 hr 25 min Prep: 1 hr Inactive: 2 hr Cook: 25 min Yield: 12 servings Nutrition Info The cake is a classic French Biscuit au Beurre made with "Dutched" cocoa powder, drizzling in the clarified butter at the end for a unique delicious flavor. The filling used in the commercial version of this is probably made with whipped shortening rather than butter but I just can't bring myself to write a recipe with that ingredient as a filling. I did eat these for a year straight when I was about 12 and hung out at my friend Jenny Marshall's house. Her mom bought them but mine didn't. So I had to get my fill while playing at her house. Save Recipe Pinterest Email Level: Intermediate Total: 3 hr 25 min Prep: 1 hr Inactive: 2 hr Cook: 25 min Yield: 12 servings Nutrition Info Ingredients Deselect All Cake: 5 eggs 2 yolks 3/4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3/4 cup all-purpose flour 6 tablespoons Dutch-processed cocoa powder 1/4 teaspoon baking powder 1/4 cup clarified butter, warm Filling: 3 cups confectioners' sugar 1 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 to 2 tablespoons heavy cream Glaze: 12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped 2 ounces cocoa butter or 1/4 cup vegetable oil Add to Shopping List View Shopping List Ingredient Substitutions Directions Special equipment: 2 half sheet pans with sides Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. To make the Cake: Butter the jelly roll pan and line it with parchment paper; then butter the paper to assure release. Bring a saucepan of water to a simmer. In the bowl from a standing mixer, combine the eggs, yolks, sugar, vanilla in a bowl and whisk briefly. Set the bowl over the simmering water and stir until warm and the sugar looks dissolved. Attach the bowl to the standing mixer fitted with a whisk, and whip until light and fluffy, about 6 minutes. Meanwhile, sift together the flour, cocoa, and baking powder 3 times. Remove the bowl from the mixer and, while folding the egg mixture, sift in the flour mixture, little by little, until incorporated. Drizzle in the clarified butter, while folding the batter. Immediately pour the batter into the prepared pans dividing equally and smooth the tops with a spatula. Bake until lightly browned and it starts to pull away from the edges of the pan, about 14 to 16 minutes. Remove the cakes from the oven and let sit in the pan for 1 minute. Run a knife along the edge to release the cake then flip it out onto parchment paper. Brush the paper (the one you lined the pan with) with water and let soak for 2 minutes. Peel it off the cake. Trim dry edges from the cake. Let cool covered with plastic wrap. To make the Filling: In the bowl of a standing mixer, combine the sugar and butter and mix on low speed until well blended; then increase speed to medium and beat for another 3 minutes. Add vanilla and cream and continue to beat on medium speed for 1 minute more, adding more cream for spreading consistency, if needed. Spread the sponge cakes with a thin layer of the filling, leaving a 1/4-inch space at the far edge. Roll the cake tightly on the long side until you have rolled a 1 1/2-inch thick log. Cut the log off from the remaining sheet of cake and place seam side-down. Repeat with remaining cake. Chill the logs for 30 minutes; then cut into 2 1/2-inch sections. To make the Glaze: Melt the 2 ingredients together in the top of a double boiler or a bowl set over barely simmering water, stirring occasionally. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. One at a time, gently drop the cake rolls into the hot chocolate. Lift out with a fork and let excess chocolate drip back into the bowl. Place on the cookie sheet and let set at room temperature until the coating is firm, about 1 to 2 hours. Tools You May Need Price and stock may change after publish date, and we may make money off these links. Tools You May Need Price and stock may change after publish date, and we may make money off these links. My Private Notes Add a Note Show: Sweet Dreams Episode: Blasts from the Past Looking for Something Else? Healthy Highly Rated 5 Ingredients or Less Surprise Me Neapolitan Holiday Cookies Homemade Soft Pretzels Homemade Marshmallows Homemade Thanksgiving Gravy Your Rating: Post Review 👩‍🍳 What's Cooking 50 Easy Dinner Recipes Everyone Will Love Our 100 Best Slow Cooker Recipes 47 Pasta Recipes With Tons of Glowing, 5-Star Ratings Discover More Recipes... Shop With Us 5 Best Vacuum Sealers, Tested and Reviewed 9 Best Air Fryers, Tested and Reviewed 8 Best Coffeemakers, Tested and Reviewed Our Newsletter Subscribe to our Recipe of the Day newsletter to get Food Network's best ideas for breakfast, lunch, dinner and dessert delivered to your inbox daily. By entering your email address, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy Policy . Food Network and its affiliates may use your email address to provide updates, ads, and offers. Sign Up To withdraw your consent or learn more about your rights, see the Privacy Policy . Thanks for subscribing to the Recipe of the Day newsletter. Check out all our other great newsletters from Easy Recipes, Healthy Eating Ideas and Chef Recipe Videos. Healthy Eating 12 Days of Cookies 7 Days to Eating More Protein Food Network Favorites Food.com Eats of the Week Thanksgiving Countdown Food.com Recipe of the Day Food Network Veggie Eats Trending Eats Food Network Shopping Food Network Kitchen Sweepstakes Updates Sign Up for More No Thanks Thanks, we have added your selections to your subscriptions. Related Pages Ho Bak Jun (Zucchini Pancake) Beef and Black Bean Ho Fun 10 Sauces to Dress Up Chicken Breasts It’s Time to Deck the Halls for Our All-New... Meet the Teams Competing on Holiday Wars, Season 4 Shiitake and Black Bean Ho Fun with Crisp Pastrami Saucy Beef Chow Fun Homemade Peanut Butter Cooking School Site Map Visitor Agreement AdChoices Privacy Policy About Newsroom Advertise Help TV Ratings Online Closed Captioning Accessibility Newsletters Discovery, Inc. Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information International Editions United States Asia Brazil Canada Europe, Middle East & Africa United Kingdom Latin America The Discovery Family of Networks HGTV Food.com Travel Channel TLC.com Discovery.com Cooking Channel © 2026 Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights reserved.