Enchiladas Verde with Jackfruit and White Beans (Vegetarian) Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Vegetarian » Enchiladas Verde with Jackfruit and White Beans (Vegetarian) Enchiladas Verde with Jackfruit and White Beans (Vegetarian) 45 minutes mins 6 servings No ratings yet These green enchiladas are made meatless but still have the texture of shredded chicken, thanks to jackfruit. White beans add extra heartiness. Make it with homemade sauce or use store-bought for an easy weeknight dinner! Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on April 17, 2025 This post may contain affiliate links. If you love satisfying vegetarian enchiladas , you are in the right place. These enchiladas verde made with jackfruit and white beans are a meatless meal that everyone will truly love! Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! It’s the filling that meat-eaters or vegetarians will go crazy over. Thanks to shredded jackfruit, it mimics the texture of shredded chicken while remaining totally meatless. Of course, making them with homemade green enchilada sauce definitely takes them to the next level, too. Ingredient Spotlight: Jackfruit This recipe, and all savory recipes made with jackfruit, use young green jackfruit ; it should be canned in brine, not syrup. It has a very neutral flavor and shreds just like chicken, so it’s an excellent meat substitute. Jackfruit piece from can. Shred the jackfruit pieces in your hand. Et voila, shredded jackfruit! To prepare it, drain and rinse he chunks. Then, using your hands, simply press it apart into shreds. You can chop the firm base or leave it whole. For more information and details on preparing and using jackfruit, check out my ultimate guide to jackfruit ! Let’s Make Fresh and Tangy Green Enchiladas! First things first, if you’re making your own green enchilada sauce , start there. My version roasts the tomatillos, aromatics, and peppers in the oven before it all blends together. It’s so easy to make, and the flavor is unbeatable! Of course, if you’re in a pinch, use your favorite canned sauce. Mix the Filling This filling is what dreams are made of – it’s hearty, cheesy, and uber-flavorful. Once the jackfruit is shredded, mix it together with a can of white beans, hatch chiles, cream cheese, shredded Monterey jack cheese, and cilantro. Make sure the cream cheese is soft so it mixes in well! Taste test the filling for salt levels. Cream cheese, you might ask?! Yep! I tried versions with it and sour cream during my recipe testing process. And while, of course, I love sour cream, cream cheese gave the enchiladas a richer, more decadent take that my taste testers and I couldn’t resist. Roll the Enchiladas Use either corn or flour tortillas for this recipe. If using corn, make sure you heat them in the microwave for a few seconds, wrapped in a damp paper towel, to ensure they’re pliable and won’t tear while rolling. To be extra authentic, lightly fry each side in a little oil. I often use flour tortillas, as shown here. If they’re cold, I also recommend warming them slightly to make rolling easier. Place 1/3 cup of filling in the center of tortlla. Take one edge and roll it all the way around. Place seam side down in the pan. Either way, place the tortilla flat on your work surface and place about 1/3 cup of the filling in the center, spreading it in a line across the tortilla. Gently take one edge of the tortilla that’s parallel to the filling and begin rolling it around the mixture. Continue rolling until it’s all the way across. In a 9×13 pan with enchilada sauce on the bottom, place the rolled tortilla seam side down. Continue the process until all of the filling has been used. With traditional tortillas around 6 inches, this recipe makes approximately 10-12. I usually get 10 to fit in a 9×13 pan, and then place the two extra along the side. Time to Bake Spread the remaining sauce over the top of the enchiladas, along with shredded cheese. Bake until bubbly and the cheese is melty. If needed, turn on the broiler for a few minutes at the end to get some golden brown touches to the cheese. Measure the cheese on top with your heart! Bake until golden, bubbly, and mouthwatering! Serve ’em Up! Once baked, let the enchiladas rest for a few minutes to set up. Then, the best part…time to dig in! These green enchiladas stand alone just fine, but for some garnishing touches, I like avocado slices, more fresh cilantro, a little sour cream, diced red onion, and jalapeno slices for those who love a bit of spice. Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! No ratings yet Get the Recipe Enchiladas Verde with Jackfruit and White Beans (Vegetarian) Prep: 20 minutes mins Cook: 25 minutes mins Total: 45 minutes mins Servings: 6 servings Print Pin Rate These green enchiladas are made meatless but still have the texture of shredded chicken, thanks to jackfruit. White beans add extra heartiness. Make it with homemade sauce or use store-bought for an easy weeknight dinner! 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 2 – 2½ cups green enchilada sauce , homemade or canned ▢ 14 ounces young green jackfruit , in brine, not syrup, drained and rinsed ▢ 15 ounces canned white beans , drained and rinsed* ▢ 4 ounces cream cheese , room temperature ▢ 4 ounces diced green chiles , canned ▢ 8 ounces Monterey jack cheese , shredded (2 cups) ▢ ½ teaspoon ground cumin ▢ ⅓ cup Cilantro , roughly chopped ▢ ½ teaspoon kosher salt ▢ 12 flour or corn tortillas , 6 inches or so Equipment ▢ 9×13 Glass Baking Dish ▢ Mixing Bowls Instructions Preheat oven to 350F. Spread 1 cup of enchilada sauce across the bottom of a 9×13 baking dish. Set aside. Drain and rinse the jackfruit, then use your hands to break it apart to "shred" it. Roughly chop or break apart the firm base; any "seeds" are fine to use as they are. 14 ounces young green jackfruit In a large mixing bowl, combine shredded jackfruit, white beans, green chiles, 1 cup shredded cheese, cumin, cilantro, and salt. 15 ounces canned white beans, 4 ounces cream cheese, 4 ounces diced green chiles, ½ teaspoon ground cumin, ⅓ cup Cilantro, ½ teaspoon kosher salt Warm tortillas as needed; if using corn tortillas wrap in a damp paper towel and microwave for 30 seconds, or lightly fry each side in a little oil before wrapping. 12 flour or corn tortillas Place a tortilla flat on a work surface, and place approximately ⅓ cup of filling in the center. Take one edge of the tortilla and roll it around the filling. Place the rolled tortilla in the baking dish, seam side down. Continue until all enchiladas are formed. Spread the remaining sauce across the tortillas (using 1 to 1 ½ cups depending on how saucy you like them). Sprinkle the remaining cheese across the top. Bake for 25-30 minutes until bubbly and the cheese is melted. Broil for 1-2 minutes for extra golden cheese. Let the enchiladas rest for 5-10 minutes before serving. Garnish with extra cilantro, red onion, avocado, or sour cream as desired. Enjoy! Notes White Beans: any variety will work; I like Great Northern or Cannelini beans the most! Serving: 2 enchiladas , Calories: 578 kcal , Carbohydrates: 71 g , Protein: 22 g , Fat: 23 g , Saturated Fat: 13 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 2 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 6 g , Cholesterol: 53 mg , Sodium: 1863 mg , Potassium: 523 mg , Fiber: 8 g , Sugar: 11 g , Vitamin A: 1275 IU , Vitamin C: 5 mg , Calcium: 471 mg , Iron: 6 mg Course: Dinner Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: Mexican Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! Main Dish Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on April 17, 2025 0 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post Sheet Pan Roasted Green Enchilada Sauce Next Post » Small-Batch Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Muffins Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required