Small-Batch Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Muffins Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Breakfast » Muffins » Small-Batch Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Muffins Small-Batch Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Muffins 28 minutes mins 8 muffins No ratings yet Bursting with juicy raspberries and melty white chocolate, these easy muffins are soft, tender, and irresistibly flavorful. Made in one bowl with simple ingredients — they’re the perfect small batch, bakery-style treat for breakfast or a sweet snack. Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on April 29, 2025 (last updated Sep 18, 2025) This post may contain affiliate links. If you’re anything like me, you know there’s no resisting a fresh-from-the-oven homemade muffin recipe — and these Raspberry White Chocolate Muffins are no exception. Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! They’re everything you want in a quick and easy breakfast: soft, tender, just the right amount of sweet, and made with simple ingredients you probably already have on hand. Even better?! It’s a small batch recipe so you’ll have 8 perfectly sized muffins to enjoy, just like with our reader-favorite banana chocolate chip muffins . Ingredient Spotlight: Frozen Raspberries Don’t you just love a recipe that you can make all year round without worrying about ingredients, especially raspberry recipes ?! That, my friend, is this recipe, because using frozen raspberries to make white chocolate raspberry muffins is *the* way to go. Using the frozen variety instead of fresh reduces the amount of water in the batter, keeping our ratio just right for an irresistible tender crumb. During my recipe testing process , I tested a variety of ways to incorporate frozen berries. Thawing them left too much room for error with excess moisture, and just folding them in resulted in really bruised looking muffins. The winner? Tossing the berries in a little bit of flour straight from the freezer, and wasting absolutely no time folding them in and getting them straight into the oven. The faster you’re able to do this, the less streaky the batter will be. The final result is a berry-filled muffin with rasperry in every bite – not just at the bottom. Mix the Batter, and Bake, it’s that Easy! Just like my banana carrot muffins , this recipe is a one-bowl wonder—which is a game changer, espeically in the morning. In that one bowl, combine the ingredients in this order for light, fluffy, tender muffin texture: Whisking together the wet ingredients first ensures they’re combined. Add all the dry ingredients to the same bowl! Whisk together melted butter, egg, plain yogurt, and the sugars. Do this first because you can whisk to your heart’s desire without worrying about making tough muffins. Fold in the dry ingredients until halfway incorporated — this will ensure you don’t overmix the batter! I also recommend putting the bowl on a kitchen scale and weighing these ingredients in for flawless results. Toss the berries in flour – straight from the freezer – do not thaw them! Take the raspberries out of the freezer and quickly toss them in flour to ensure they don’t sink in the batter. Quickly is key – you don’t want them to thaw! Gently fold white chocolate chips and the prepped raspberries into the batter. Add the white chocolate chips and coated raspberries. Immediately fold them in, but don’t overdo it. Immediately scoop the batter into lined muffin tins and pop ’em into the oven! If you’d like to be a little extra with some bakery-style flare, sprinkle on raw sugar or sanding sugar to top. When done, they’ll be slightly golden brown and bounce back when lightly touched. Fill the muffin tins and sprinkle with sugar to make them bakery-style. The muffins are baked at a higher temperature to start to get a really nice rise on them; then, it’s lowered to finish baking through without burning the bottoms or sides. As I tested the recipe, I found this popular method worked flawlessly to keep the batter from sinking, since the raspberries and white chocolate chips do tend to “weigh” the batter down. Enjoy the baked muffins warm with a smear of creamy butter and your go-to homemade latte for slow mornings…it’s the ultimate line-up. Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! No ratings yet Get the Recipe Small-Batch Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Muffins Prep: 10 minutes mins Cook: 18 minutes mins Total: 28 minutes mins Servings: 8 muffins Print Pin Rate Bursting with juicy raspberries and melty white chocolate, these easy muffins are soft, tender, and irresistibly flavorful. Made in one bowl with simple ingredients — they’re the perfect small batch, bakery-style treat for breakfast or a sweet snack. 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 4 Tablespoons ( 56 g ) unsalted butter , melted and slightly cooled ▢ ¼ cup ( 60 g ) plain yogurt , or Greek yogurt for extra richness ▢ ¼ cup ( 55 g ) granulated sugar ▢ 2 Tablespoons ( 27 g ) brown sugar ▢ 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract ▢ 1 egg ▢ 1 ⅛ cups ( 140 g ) all-purpose flour ▢ 1 teaspoon baking powder ▢ ¼ teaspoon baking soda ▢ ½ teaspoon kosher salt ▢ 1 cup ( 120 g ) frozen raspberries , tossed in 1 tsp flour; see notes ▢ ¼ – ⅓ cup white chocolate chips , adjust to your sweetness preference Equipment ▢ Mixing Bowls ▢ Silicone Spatula ▢ #20 Cookie Scoop Instructions Preheat oven to 400°F (204°C). Line muffin tin with liners or grease well. In a large bowl, whisk together the melted butter, yogurt, sugars, vanilla, and egg until smooth. 4 Tablespoons unsalted butter, ¼ cup plain yogurt, ¼ cup granulated sugar, 2 Tablespoons brown sugar, 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract, 1 egg Add the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Fold the dry ingredients into the wet until halfway combined (with some flour streaks remaining). 1 ⅛ cups all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, ¼ teaspoon baking soda, ½ teaspoon kosher salt Toss frozen raspberries with 1 teaspoon flour, directly from the freezer. Gently fold the raspberries and the white chocolate chips into the batter just until combined; don’t overmix or the batter will be streaky. 1 cup frozen raspberries, ¼ – ⅓ cup white chocolate chips Scoop batter into muffin cups, approximately ¾ full, or nearly to the top. I use a #20 cookie scoop. Bake at 400°F for 6–7 minutes, then reduce oven temperature to 350°F and bake another 10–12 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean. A darker pan will cook more quickly. Let cool in the pan for a few minutes, then transfer to a wire rack. Notes Keep the raspberries frozen until it’s time to stir them in; do not thaw! Try not to overfold them, either, to keep the batter light and marbled, not streaky. Calories: 203 kcal , Carbohydrates: 28 g , Protein: 3 g , Fat: 9 g , Saturated Fat: 5 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 1 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 2 g , Trans Fat: 0.2 g , Cholesterol: 38 mg , Sodium: 251 mg , Potassium: 84 mg , Fiber: 1 g , Sugar: 14 g , Vitamin A: 219 IU , Vitamin C: 4 mg , Calcium: 64 mg , Iron: 1 mg Course: Breakfast Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: American Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! Muffins Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on April 29, 2025 (last updated Sep 18, 2025) 0 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post Enchiladas Verde with Jackfruit and White Beans (Vegetarian) Next Post » 5-Minute Pesto Rosso Sauce (Sun-Dried Tomato and Walnut Pesto) Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required