Homemade Cheese Ravioli with Ricotta - Fork in the Kitchen Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Main Dish » Pasta » Homemade Cheese Ravioli with Ricotta Homemade Cheese Ravioli with Ricotta 1 hour hr 10 minutes mins 4 servings 5 ( 29 ratings) Learn how to make homemade cheese ravioli with ricotta in our step-by-step guide! Fresh semolina pasta is filled with a creamy ricotta and parmesan blend. This delicate, light, cheese filling is simple and well-balanced, lending itself to enjoy with a bold tomato sauce or light butter sauce. Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on March 20, 2019 (last updated Dec 30, 2025) This post may contain affiliate links. Attention all pasta-loving hearts and stomachs (!!!). Prepare yourself, because this homemade ricotta ravioli is here to impress! Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! Before you know it, you’ll be diving into a big bowl and eating your heart out. It’s all excitement here, even if this is your first time exploring the world of fresh pasta from scratch. I’m so happy to report that making ravioli in your kitchen is easier than you might think, too. I’ll walk you through each step of the process I’ve perfected over many years of trial and error, so you can make the best darn pasta you’ve ever had. Reader review 5 ( 29 ratings) I just made this recipe last night as well as your pasta dough and it was fantastic! Definitely making it again! – Rachael Read more reviews First, Mix the Dough When it comes down to it, pasta dough is pasta dough, and you get to choose your own adventure (errr, pasta shape) with it! In this case, we’re turning it into ravioli! My pasta dough recipe, made with semolina flour, is on the heartier side, which makes it perfect for ravioli! Stir together the dry ingredients, then make a small well in the center to add the egg and liquid. Begin stirring with a fork to incorporate the flour into the wet ingredients. You’ll have this shaggy mixture form… …then use your hands to begin kneading the dough together. Transfer the dough to a clean counter and continue kneading to form that gluten! Now for the pasta dough to rest. Make the Best Ricotta Cheese Filling This cheese ravioli recipe is simple, which is what makes it so lovely. We’re not bringing out the fanfare here; we’re using basic ingredients and turning them into something magical with a burst of brightness and a hint of warm spice. It leaves you coming back for more, and more, and more. The ricotta and Parmesan cheeses are the base. They melt together and create a light, creamy, airy ravioli filling. Stirred together with them are fresh lemon zest for subtle brightness, a pinch of nutmeg for a little je ne sais quoi , and fresh basil for brightness. For a firmer filling , rather than the softer, melt-in-your-mouth ricotta filling, add shredded fresh mozzarella for a three-cheese trifecta. Reader review 4.99 ( 94 ratings) Simply Wonderful. Thank you for sharing. The lemon zest was epic, set off all the subtle flavours offered by your recipe. – Brad Read more reviews Step-By-Step: How to Make Ravioli Be sure to see the video for more visuals ; as always, check the recipe card below. For more details, read how to make ravioli without a machine . Today, I’m sharing my favorite, and in my opinion, the simplest way to make the ravioli pockets after years and years of making ravioli with my family. You can purchase a ravioli maker , but it’s not necessary, especially if you don’t want another kitchen gadget taking up space. I’ve been making ravioli without equipment using a fold-over technique for years, and it never fails me. The pockets look more rustic and clearly handmade, which I appreciate. Let’s get to it! First, roll out the fresh pasta dough Use your pasta machine for the best results, but a rolling pin will work, too, if you want to make this recipe entirely by hand and equipment-free. Divide the pasta dough into four sections – use your hands or a dough cutter. Flatten a quarter with your hands – this doesn’t have to be exact. Begin rolling the dough through on the widest setting to create a rectangle. After it’s gone through the widest setting, fold the sides of the dough into a rectangular shape again, as needed, and roll again. Each time you roll out the rectangle, it expands based on how it is placed in the roller. Making the section into a uniform rectangle (as much as possible) will help you later on. Roll it through the machine to flatten. After the first pass it will probably be oblong shaped. Just fold it into a rectangle again. And run it through the machine on the widest setting until you’re satisfied with a rectangle shape. Continue rolling the rectangle through the machine at each setting until you’ve reached the second to thinnest. A wide, beautiful pasta sheet! At this point, I recommend starting a pot of salted water as you prepare the ravioli pockets so it can come to a boil and be ready to cook them when you are finished forming the pockets. Add the Ravioli Filling Once the dough is fully rolled out in a long rectangle, place dollops of the filling about 1 to 1 ½ inches apart on one side of the dough, because later on the other side with be folded up to create the ravioli pockets. I like using a small cookie scoop to place the filling so I have an equal amount for each pocket. Form the Ravioli Pockets Once the filling is spaced on the entire length of your pasta sheet, fold the other half of the dough on top of the filling. It helps to dip your finger in water and run it around the pasta edges before folding. This can help the dough stick to itself if it seems a little dry. Gently press around each filling to create the beginning of each pocket. As you press the pasta around the filling, the edges will stick together. You want to be gentle yet firm to ensure it sticks together. Now that you’ve pressed the dough down and you can see where each pocket will be, use a pizza cutter or pasta wheel to cut between each pocket. Once the pockets are cut, again press the edges down as needed, or use a fork to make sure they are fully pressed together if you’re concerned they won’t stick together. Now that you have each pocket formed, gently lift them from your counter and place them on a semolina flour-lined plate or baking sheet until ready to cook. Continue the steps with the remaining sheets of pasta dough before you get to cooking! Let’s Cook Ravioli Once the large stockpot of salted water has come to a boil, gently add the ravioli to the pot in batches. Be careful not to overcrowd the pan; ravioli should have room to swim around a little bit. Once they’re ready, remove the ravioli pockets using a spider-like strainer with a handle to avoid burns. If needed, a slotted spoon will do, too. Then, transfer the ravioli pockets directly into your sauce ( I love a homemade marinara pasta sauce ). It’s ok if a bit of water transfers over, too, because pasta water helps the sauce adhere to the pasta! Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! 5 ( 29 ratings) Get the Recipe Homemade Cheese Ravioli with Ricotta Prep: 30 minutes mins Cook: 10 minutes mins Rest Time: 30 minutes mins Total: 1 hour hr 10 minutes mins Servings: 4 servings Print Pin Rate Learn how to make homemade cheese ravioli with ricotta in our step-by-step guide! Fresh semolina pasta is filled with a creamy ricotta and parmesan blend. This delicate, light, cheese filling is simple and well-balanced, lending itself to enjoy with a bold tomato sauce or light butter sauce. 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 1 pound Fresh Pasta Dough* , or store-bought fresh pasta sheets ▢ 1 cup whole milk ricotta ▢ ⅓ cup parmesan cheese* , freshly shredded ▢ ⅛-¼ teaspoon lemon zest , see notes ▢ 2 teaspoons fresh basil , finely chopped or 1 tsp dried ▢ Pinch ground nutmeg ▢ Salt and pepper to taste ▢ Homemade Tomato Sauce , or sauce as desired, for serving ▢ Parmesan and/or basil , for garnish Equipment ▢ Pasta Rolling Pin ▢ Pasta Machine ▢ Pasta Wheel ▢ 8 Quart Stock Pot ▢ #60 Cookie Scoop or smaller Instructions Make the fresh pasta dough and let it rest as directed. Prepare a baking sheet by sprinkling semolina across it and set aside (we'll use it later on once the ravioli is formed). Make the filling: In a bowl, combine the ricotta, parmesan cheese, lemon zest, basil, nutmeg, salt, pepper. Taste test to adjust any levels according to your taste. Set aside or in the fridge if not using right away. 1 cup whole milk ricotta, ⅓ cup parmesan cheese*, ⅛-¼ teaspoon lemon zest , 2 teaspoons fresh basil , Pinch ground nutmeg, Salt and pepper to taste Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, because this will take a while, I like to start it before or while forming the pasta so it’s ready once the ravioli is formed. Roll out the dough: Take approximately ¼ of the fresh dough ball (either cut it into sections or tear off a portion). Using your hands, form it into a rectangle shape, just thick enough to fit into the largest setting on your pasta machine (use a pasta machine for best results, but a rolling pin will work, too). Roll it out on the largest setting, adjusting and folding it into a rectangular shape again as needed. Each time you roll it out, it will expand in the shape it was before rolling, so making it a uniform rectangle as much as possible to help you later on. 1 pound Fresh Pasta Dough* Once you've gone through the largest setting and have a solid 'rectangle shape', thread the dough through each smaller setting, getting thinner each time, until you've reached your desired thickness. I like to go with the second to last thinnest setting, however, if you're really brave you can go as thin as possible. Place the rolled pasta sheet on a semolina-dusted countertop to prevent sticking. On one half of the rolled-out dough section, place approximately 1 ½ teaspoons of the filling spaced about 1 ½ inches apart. You want to place it on one half because the other side of the dough will be folded over to create the ravioli pockets. I find that a small cookie scoop to place the filling gives the perfect equal amount for each pocket. With the filling spaced on the entire length of your pasta sheet, fold over the other half of the dough on top of the filling. You may want to use your finger dipped in water and run it along the pasta edges before folding to help the dough stick if it seems dry. Gently press around each filling to create the beginning of each pocket. Use a pizza cutter or pasta wheel to cut between each pocket. Press the edges down as needed, or use a fork to make sure they are fully pressed together. Place the pockets on your prepared baking sheet and continue forming ravioli with the remaining pasta sheets. Once the water is at a rolling boil, add the ravioli pockets in batches. Be sure not to overcrowd the pan. The ravioli pockets will take approximately 2-4 minutes to cook to al dente, depending on their size. You'll know they're ready when they float. Remove them from the pasta water and place them directly into your sauce. Continue until all ravioli pockets are cooked. Homemade Tomato Sauce Serve immediately and garnish with additional parmesan cheese and basil as desired. Enjoy your creation! Parmesan and/or basil Notes This recipe makes approximately 48, 1 1/2 inch ravioli pieces. Ricotta: if your ricotta has any excess liquid, drain it off or make sure it’s thoroughly mixed in so that it doesn’t make the filling too watery. To freeze ravioli: lay out on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet. Place in the freezer until completely frozen, then transfer the ravioli to a freezer bag. When ready to use, boil as directed above for about 2-3 minutes longer. 10/2020 Update: Suggested a range for the lemon zest based on reader feedback; add 1/8 tsp, then add more as desired. It adds a nice brightness to the pasta, but you can omit it if you so choose. *Use specifically labeled vegetarian Parmesan cheese, if needed Calories: 659 kcal , Carbohydrates: 57 g , Protein: 17 g , Fat: 40 g , Saturated Fat: 16 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 4 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 17 g , Cholesterol: 37 mg , Sodium: 649 mg , Potassium: 183 mg , Fiber: 3 g , Sugar: 0.2 g , Vitamin A: 345 IU , Vitamin C: 0.1 mg , Calcium: 249 mg , Iron: 3 mg Course: Dinner Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: Italian Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! This recipe is part of our Date Night Recipes to Love roundup. Check it out! Pasta Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on March 20, 2019 (last updated Dec 30, 2025) 26 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post Green Shakshuka with Kale, Leeks, Artichokes, & Feta Next Post » Strawberry Lemon Macarons 26 comments on “Homemade Cheese Ravioli with Ricotta” Leave a comment » Rachael — November 12, 2017 @ 5:05 pm Reply I just made this recipe last night as well as your pasta dough and it was fantastic! Definitely making it again! Becca — November 12, 2017 @ 7:54 pm Reply That’s so awesome to hear, Rachael! Glad you enjoyed it! Mary Taylor — May 12, 2020 @ 3:12 pm Reply Just made this tonight. My son is a tough critic. He loved it had some pasta flour so kind of followed the dough recipe. Found it took longer to cook the tomato sauce recipe but that doesn’t matter the sauce is so lovely it will become a household favourite and you are right there is nothing finer than a homecooked tomato pasta sauce….amazing. Need to practice making ravioli but not bad for a first attempt. Thankyou 🥰 Becca — May 12, 2020 @ 9:51 pm Reply I’m so glad to hear! Thanks for commenting! Liz W — February 28, 2021 @ 11:23 pm Reply I doubled the pasta and the filling. I rolled it out very thin (about a 5 on my kitchen aid roller). It made 25 ravioli before running out of filling. Only needed a quarter of the dough. I have to say, in not a fan of the lemon zest. I wish the cheese mixture was a little more firm as well. I refrigerated it while the dough 2 resting. Becca Mills — March 1, 2021 @ 9:05 am Reply Thanks for the feedback, Liz! I’d recommend adding in some mozzarella if you make it again, that will add some ‘firmness’ to the filling. catherine a bussell — March 14, 2021 @ 4:58 pm Reply i made this and pasta was great but the cheese turned almost melted. I tried putting more in, cooking longer or shorter, but really unhappy with it Becca Mills — March 15, 2021 @ 8:07 am Reply Hi Catherine – sorry to hear the filling wasn’t what you expected. Since it is a ricotta filling, it is softer. If you’d like it firmer, I’d recommend adding mozzarella cheese to the filling next time. Emily — March 23, 2023 @ 2:12 pm Reply My new go-to ravioli filling. My husband loved it, too! Becca Mills — March 23, 2023 @ 2:12 pm Reply So glad to hear! Thanks, Emily! James — May 28, 2023 @ 9:16 pm Reply Loved it. Ate my for 2 days Becca Mills — May 29, 2023 @ 10:07 am Reply I’m so glad to hear you loved it! Thanks, James! Valerie — November 5, 2023 @ 3:47 pm Reply First time ever making homemade pasta and I made the raviolis a little too big but it still.turned out good. I use a marinara sauce i had in my pantry. The pasta .turned out great! I’ll be making this again but next time.try to make my raviolis smaller and use a better marinara sauce. Becca Mills — November 5, 2023 @ 4:24 pm Reply Awesome, I’m so glad to hear! Thank you for making them and taking the time to leave your review, Valerie! Shaheen — January 11, 2024 @ 1:14 pm Reply Absolutely delighted with the homemade cheese ravioli recipe! 🌟 The pasta dough was easy to work with, creating thin, delicate sheets that perfectly encased the rich and flavorful cheese filling. Becca Mills — January 12, 2024 @ 9:58 am Reply Awesome, so glad to hear! Matt — March 10, 2024 @ 7:12 pm Reply A perfect recipe! Delicious through and through. The lemon zest is the ultimate touch of attention to detail to me! Delicious. (Review provided by friend/family of forkinthekitchen.com.) Becca Mills — March 11, 2024 @ 9:13 am Reply Thanks, Matt! I’m so glad you enjoyed it! Brad Smith — June 18, 2024 @ 6:13 pm Reply Simply Wonderful. Thank you for sharing. The lemon zest was epic, set off all the subtle flavours offered by your recipe. Becca Mills — June 19, 2024 @ 8:41 am Reply Excellent, I’m so glad to hear you enjoyed the lemon zest, too! Thanks so much, Brad! Ellen — June 29, 2024 @ 7:43 pm Reply Incredibly delicious filling! Easy to make with the family. Would 100% recommend this recipe over other ravioli recipes! Becca Mills — June 30, 2024 @ 9:11 am Reply Thanks so much, Ellen! Love this as a family activity, too! JaniceJ — August 27, 2025 @ 4:48 pm Reply My husband is lactose intolerant, and I can’t get lactose-free ricotta in my neck of the woods. Can I use well-drained cottage cheese as a substitute? Becca Mills — August 28, 2025 @ 10:26 am Reply Yeah, that should work! John — November 21, 2025 @ 3:58 am Reply When making the fresh pasta dough what is the ratio of Semolina Flour and all purpose flour? What should the total cups or grams be? Becca Mills — November 23, 2025 @ 1:18 pm Reply Hi John – if you click over to my fresh pasta dough recipe you’ll get the entire ingredients and instructions, but it’s 1 cup semolina, 1 cup all purpose, and 2 eggs (plus salt and liquids); grams are included in that recipe card. Hope that helps, let me know if you have any other questions. 5 from 29 votes ( 21 ratings without comment ) Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required Recipe Ratings without Comment Something went wrong. Please try again.