Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Main Dish » Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole 1 hour hr 20 minutes mins 6 servings 5 ( 2 ratings) Nothing says classic comfort food like this Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole. It’s made with minimal prep and no need to pre-cook the rice! Loaded with fresh broccoli florets, and a homemade cheese sauce, it's the perfect weeknight casserole! Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on February 20, 2023 (last updated Mar 5, 2026) This post may contain affiliate links. If you’re experimenting with meatless Mondays this year or simply can’t get enough vegetarian dinner ideas , this cheesy vegetarian broccoli rice casserole is for you. Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! Many broccoli rice casserole recipes are made creamy and cheesy with Velveeta and canned cream of whatever soup. But in true FITK fashion, I took on the challenge of making this version without these store-bought items, and instead swapped them for homemade versions. If you’ve tried my homemade condensed cream of mushroom soup , then you shouldn’t be surprised. I’m happy to report that this casserole passes the test in every way. It’s gooey, velvety, and the ultimate adult makeover of this nostalgic childhood bake. Reader review 4.99 ( 94 ratings) This is so incredibly good! I’ve been looking for a broccoli and rice casserole recipe for so long, and this checks all my wants and then some. Absolutely delicious! – Debby Read more reviews Let’s Make It! Since there’s no need to pre-cook the rice in this rice casserole, this comforting main dish comes together with just a few quick and easy steps. Prep the Veggies First, finely dice the onion and broccoli florets. This will not only evenly disperse the veggies throughout the casserole dish but also help the broccoli become soft and tender without the need for any parboiling. If you own a food processor, give your broccoli florets a quick blitz with the S blade until they are in small dice. While you’re at it, use this handy appliance fitted with the shred attachment to uniformly prep your carrots, too! Simmer the Cheese Sauce Now onto the reason why we’re all here – the beloved not-Velveeta cheese sauce. Saute the onion to develop flavor, then add room temperature milk. Stir in cream cheese until melted. Add shredded cheese in batches until it’s melted. Add the broccoli, carrots, and rinsed rice to the cheese sauce. Stir together to combine. Spread in a square baking dish to bake, covering for the first half so the rice gets tender. Stir halfway through, and then continue baking until bubbly and golden! And just like that, dinner is served! Make a simple side salad to enjoy some bright freshness alongside this casserole and your favorite drink! Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! 5 ( 2 ratings) Get the Recipe Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole Prep: 20 minutes mins Cook: 1 hour hr Total: 1 hour hr 20 minutes mins Servings: 6 servings Print Pin Rate Nothing says classic comfort food like this Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole. It’s made with minimal prep and no need to pre-cook the rice! Loaded with fresh broccoli florets, and a homemade cheese sauce, it's the perfect weeknight casserole! 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 3 Tablespoons unsalted butter ▢ 1 cup ( 128 g ) yellow onion , finely diced ▢ 1 teaspoon kosher salt , divided, or to taste ▢ 3 garlic cloves , minced ▢ ¼ teaspoon white pepper ▢ Freshly ground black pepper , to taste ▢ 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard ▢ 1 ¾ cups whole milk , room temperature ▢ 4 ounces cream cheese , cubed ▢ 1 ½ cups ( 140 g ) extra sharp cheddar cheese , shredded ▢ ½ cup ( 44 g ) grated parmesan cheese ▢ ¾ cup ( 148 g ) uncooked long grain white rice , rinsed and drained ▢ 4 cups ( 264 g ) fresh broccoli florets , small dice ▢ 1 cup ( 100 g ) shredded carrots Equipment ▢ 8×8 Glass Baking Dish Instructions Preheat oven to 375°F and lightly grease an 8×8 glass baking dish. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt 3 tablespoons of butter. Saute the onion with a pinch of salt for 3-4 minutes, then add the garlic cloves and cook 2 minutes until fragrant. Stir in white pepper, another pinch of salt, black pepper, and Dijon mustard. 3 Tablespoons unsalted butter, 1 cup yellow onion, 1 teaspoon kosher salt, 3 garlic cloves, ¼ teaspoon white pepper, Freshly ground black pepper, 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard Whisk in milk until combined and bring to a simmer. Once simmering, lower heat and stir in cubes of cream cheese until melted. Remove from heat and stir cheddar and parmesan in batches until melted. Stir in broccoli, carrots, and rice until combined. 1 ¾ cups whole milk, 4 ounces cream cheese, 1 ½ cups extra sharp cheddar cheese, ½ cup grated parmesan cheese, ¾ cup uncooked long grain white rice, 4 cups fresh broccoli florets, 1 cup shredded carrots Transfer the casserole into the prepared pan and spread it in an even layer. Cover with foil and bake for 40 minutes. Uncover, stir, and bake for an additional 15-20 minutes until the rice is tender. Let rest for 5-10 minutes before serving. Garnish with freshly chopped parsley, if desired. Notes Frozen Broccoli: can substitute with a 10-ounce bag of frozen broccoli. Calories: 437 kcal , Carbohydrates: 34 g , Protein: 17 g , Fat: 27 g , Saturated Fat: 16 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 1 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 6 g , Trans Fat: 0.2 g , Cholesterol: 78 mg , Sodium: 852 mg , Potassium: 503 mg , Fiber: 3 g , Sugar: 7 g , Vitamin A: 4842 IU , Vitamin C: 58 mg , Calcium: 433 mg , Iron: 1 mg Course: Dinner Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: American Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! Main Dish Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on February 20, 2023 (last updated Mar 5, 2026) 8 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post Vegetarian Layered Taco Dip Next Post » 10-Minute Air Fryer Frozen Green Beans 8 comments on “Cheesy Vegetarian Broccoli Rice Casserole” Leave a comment » Debby Johnson — August 1, 2023 @ 3:53 pm Reply This is so incredibly good! I’ve been looking for a broccoli and rice casserole recipe for so long, and this checks all my wants and then some. Absolutely delicious! Becca Mills — August 1, 2023 @ 8:07 pm Reply Yay! I’m so glad to hear it! Thanks, Debby!! Lue Ann Barnett — July 23, 2024 @ 10:04 am Reply I assume this is gluten free? Becca Mills — July 23, 2024 @ 11:00 am Reply Yep, as long as the ingredients you use are gluten-free, they should be, but I like to make sure you double check what you use if you need it specifically GF. Hope that helps! Lindsay H. — August 11, 2025 @ 6:10 pm Reply Great recipe. I skip Dijon and carrots. Change liquid to one cup stock and one cup half and half. Add paprika. Add two cans of tuna and sautéed mushrooms, and you have an incredibly decadent and healthy tuna casserole. Much healthier than traditional one using Mac and cheese and canned soup. Love. Love. Love. Makes 6 hearty portions at 450 calories each. Freezes well. Becca Mills — August 12, 2025 @ 10:41 am Reply Thanks for sharing, I’m glad you enjoyed!! Lindsay H. — October 20, 2025 @ 6:37 pm Reply The greatest part of this recipe is the cheese sauce. The cream cheese provides the thickener, so no need to use a roux. I have used this sauce for cauliflower mac & cheese. Next, I’m going to try mixing it with homemade turkey chili to make a turkey chili queso for parties. Thank you so much for sharing this. I love having an easy real food alternative to velveeta. The flavor doesn’t compare. So gosh darn good! Becca Mills — October 21, 2025 @ 2:35 pm Reply Yummy, thank you so much for sharing, I love all these ideas! 🙂 And I’m so happy to hear you love it! 5 from 2 votes Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required Recipe Ratings without Comment Something went wrong. Please try again.