Moist Chocolate Chip Muffins with Yogurt (Small Batch) Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Breakfast » Muffins » Moist Chocolate Chip Muffins with Yogurt (Small Batch) Moist Chocolate Chip Muffins with Yogurt (Small Batch) 25 minutes mins 8 muffins No ratings yet These small-batch chocolate chip muffins are soft, moist, and packed with melty chocolate chips. Made with yogurt for extra tenderness, they come together in one bowl and are so easy to make—perfect for a quick breakfast! Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on May 14, 2025 This post may contain affiliate links. There’s nothing better than a moist, light, fluffy, easy-to-make muffin , paired with a mug of piping hot coffee, first thing in the morning, and these small batch chocolate chip muffins take the cake…er, muffins. Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! You’ll be able to make these homemade muffins in a jiff, thanks to the simple pantry ingredients you probably already have on hand. Plus, some yogurt for a beautifully tender crumb. This small-batch recipe will be well-loved for mornings when you need just the right amount— the Goldilocks of muffins, you might say. With 8 perfectly sized muffins, there’s enough to share, or not, so grab your bowl and let’s get baking! Let’s Make One Bowl Muffins! Just like my banana chocolate chip muffins , this recipe is a one-bowl wonder, which is a game changer, especially in the morning. In that one bowl, combine the ingredients in this order for a light, fluffy, tender muffin texture, taking note of the folding process. Whisk together the wet ingredients and sugar until fully combined and pale in color. Weigh the flour into the bowl using a kitchen scale for fool-proof results; this will ensure you don’t have too much flour, which would result in a dry muffin. Sprinkle the remaining dry ingredients across the top. Add the wet ingredients and sugars to a mixing bowl. Whisk ’em up until completely combined. Begin to fold the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients very gently. A very important note from many recipe tests and muffin baking in general is not to overmix, so only do this until it’s partially combined. You definitely want to see lots of flour streaks at this point! Then, add in mini chocolate chips! Fold them in gently as well, until just combined into the batter. Only mix in the dry ingredients halfway! Add those chocolate chips to your heart’s desire. Gently fold them in! Stop JUST when combined. Using a large scoop is the easiest way to fill muffin tins. I recommend a #20 size because one large scoop is all you need! Fill the tins 3/4 or to the top. Sprinkle on additional mini chocolate chips if you like to be extra (be extra). BECCA’S TIP: Let the batter rest for 10-15 minutes for an even higher rise! Bake the muffins at a higher temperature to start; you’ll set the oven to 400°F. This helps them develop a beautiful rise; then, the temp is lowered to 350°F to finish baking without burning the bottoms or sides. As I tested the recipe, I found this popular method worked flawlessly to keep the batter from sinking from the weight of the chocolate chips. Fill the muffin tins, then add more chocolate chips for good measure. Beautifully domed, ready to devour! The Ultimate Way to Enjoy When it comes to enjoying chocolate chip muffins, IMO the best way to do so is when they’re warm. There’s nothing better than a tender crumb and melty chocolate in every bite. My taste tester said the ultimate experience is warm but with a slather of butter, so do with that what you will. But when it’s all said and done, there’s really no wrong way to enjoy them, whether it’s a slow morning at home with a vanilla latte or an on-the-go breakfast during busy mornings. Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! No ratings yet Get the Recipe Moist Chocolate Chip Muffins with Yogurt (Small Batch) Prep: 10 minutes mins Cook: 15 minutes mins Total: 25 minutes mins Servings: 8 muffins Print Pin Rate These small-batch chocolate chip muffins are soft, moist, and packed with melty chocolate chips. Made with yogurt for extra tenderness, they come together in one bowl and are so easy to make—perfect for a quick breakfast! 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 4 Tablespoons unsalted butter , mleted ▢ ¼ cup ( 60 g ) plain yogurt ▢ ¼ cup ( 50 g ) brown sugar ▢ ¼ cup ( 50 g ) granulated sugar ▢ 1 teaspoon vanilla extract ▢ 1 egg ▢ 125 g ( 125 g ) all-purpose flour ▢ ¾ teaspoon baking powder ▢ ¼ teaspoon baking soda ▢ ½ teaspoon kosher salt ▢ ⅛ teaspoon cinnamon ▢ ¾ cup ( 130-145 g ) mini chocolate chips Equipment ▢ Silicone Spatula ▢ Muffin Tin ▢ #20 Cookie Scoop Instructions Preheat oven to 400°F (204°C). Line 8 muffin tins with liners or grease well. In a large bowl, whisk together the melted butter, yogurt, sugars, vanilla, and egg until smooth. 4 Tablespoons unsalted butter, ¼ cup plain yogurt, ¼ cup brown sugar, ¼ cup granulated sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract Add the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Fold the dry ingredients into the wet until halfway combined (with some flour streaks remaining). 125 g all-purpose flour, ¾ teaspoon baking powder, ¼ teaspoon baking soda, ½ teaspoon kosher salt, ⅛ teaspoon cinnamon Gently fold in the mini chocolate chips just until combined. ¾ cup mini chocolate chips Scoop batter into muffin cups, approximately ¾ full, or nearly to the top. I use a #20 cookie scoop. Bake at 400°F for 6 minutes, then reduce oven temperature to 350°F and bake another 6-8 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean. A darker pan will cook more quickly. Let cool in the pan for a few minutes, then transfer to a wire rack. Serving: 1 muffin , Calories: 256 kcal , Carbohydrates: 37 g , Protein: 3 g , Fat: 11 g , Saturated Fat: 6 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 0.4 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 2 g , Trans Fat: 0.3 g , Cholesterol: 39 mg , Sodium: 245 mg , Potassium: 48 mg , Fiber: 1 g , Sugar: 24 g , Vitamin A: 250 IU , Vitamin C: 0.1 mg , Calcium: 64 mg , Iron: 1 mg Course: Breakfast Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: American Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! Muffins Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on May 14, 2025 0 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post 5-Minute Pesto Rosso Sauce (Sun-Dried Tomato and Walnut Pesto) Next Post » 15-Minute Fresh Jalapeno Simple Syrup Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required