Sheet Pan Oven Roasted Leeks and Carrots Skip to Main Content Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks FREE EBOOK! 15 Must-Make Vegetarian Appetizer Recipes Get it Now About Contact Submit Home Browse Recipes Recipe Index Appetizers All Appetizers Crostini Dips Flatbread Breakfast All Breakfast Muffins Quiche Dessert Drinks All Drinks Cocktails Coffee & Tea Syrups Main Dish All Main Dish Pasta Stir Fry Risotto Salad All Salad Recipes Salad Dressings Sauces Seafood Seasonings Side Dish Snacks All Snacks Popcorn Soup Sandwiches Vegetarian Recipe Stories Vegetarian Cookbooks Home » Side Dish » Sheet Pan Oven Roasted Leeks and Carrots Sheet Pan Oven Roasted Leeks and Carrots 35 minutes mins 4 servings 5 (1 rating) Deliciously caramelized and fork-tender roasted Leeks and Carrots are the perfect easy veggie side dish! They're ready in just 30 minutes on a sheet pan in the oven! Jump to Recipe posted by Becca Mills on January 27, 2025 (last updated Mar 6, 2025) This post may contain affiliate links. The easiest way to throw together a veggie side dish for dinner is to toss them on a sheet pan and roast them up to crisp, fork-tender perfection – and that’s exactly what we’re doing with these carrots and leeks! Save This Recipe! We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it later! Carrots are perfect for roasting because, just like with everyone’s favorite roasted carrots and potatoes , they become fork-tender and caramelized, which brings out a lovely sweet yet savory flavor to them. Pair that with mildly aromatic and onion-y leeks…it’s a match made in veggie heaven! First, Prep the Veggies It might seem counterintuitive to roast hearty carrots and delicate leeks together, but it totally works as long as you cut them correctly. The carrots should be diced somewhat smaller, and the leeks will be cut into thicker rounds. This creates the perfect balance, and they cook harmoniously together! Cut Carrots on the Bias Now, for a bit of fun, I recommend cutting the carrots on a bias – or the diagonal. It is more visually appealing than rounds (although rounds work) yet it also gives the carrots more surface area to caramelize. When cutting on the bias, just like with our Instant Pot steamed carrots , you’ll want to adjust the thickness of the slices, depending on how thick the carrot itself is. The thicker the part of the carrot you’re slicing, the thinner that you should slice. Aim for around 1/2 inch on the smaller sections and about 1/4 inch on the thicker sections. Cut Leeks into Rounds If you haven’t cooked with leeks before, it’s important to note that you do need to wash them well because dirt can get stuck between their layers. This generally happens with the outside layer at the top dark green part. For more information, check out our guide, which features several ways to wash and clean leeks . To roast them in rounds, I recommend cutting off the root end and dark green tops for this recipe and removing the outer layer. Then, rinse any dirt off. From there, cut the leek into approximately 1/2-inch rounds; rinse them as needed if they’re extra dirty. Keeping them into thicker rounds gives them more surface area to caramelize, and it also takes longer for them to cook because they’re larger, so they can remain in the oven with the carrots without burning. It’s All on a Sheet Pan Preheat the oven to 425°F. The high heat will cook them quickly, beautifully caramelizing the edges while softening the interiors. Use a half-sheet pan with edges to roast the veggies. This allows them to spread out and actually roast. If they’re too close together, they will steam instead and won’t get those nice golden bits. Toss the carrots and leeks with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Of course, depending on your meal, you can add additional seasonings accordingly. When making these for meal prep, I add a sprinkle of seasoned salt for added flavor that will complement many meals. Roast for about 25-30 minutes, depending on the size of your veggies. Toss them halfway through, using a heavy-duty spatula to scrape them up as the edges turn nice and golden brown. Serve ’em Up! This quick and easy side dish is ready to serve alongside various main dishes, from meats like chicken or steak to roasted cauliflower or stuffed mushrooms . They’re also excellent served with sauces like chimichurri or lemon herb tahini sauce for a creamy addition. You really can’t go wrong! Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! 5 (1 rating) Get the Recipe Sheet Pan Oven Roasted Leeks and Carrots Prep: 10 minutes mins Cook: 25 minutes mins Total: 35 minutes mins Servings: 4 servings Print Pin Rate Deliciously caramelized and fork-tender roasted Leeks and Carrots are the perfect easy veggie side dish! They're ready in just 30 minutes on a sheet pan in the oven! 1/2x 1x 2x 3x Ingredients ▢ 1 ½ pounds leeks , 2-3 large ▢ 1 pound whole carrots ▢ 2 Tablespoons extra virgin olive oil ▢ 1 – 1½ teaspoons kosher salt ▢ freshly ground black pepper Equipment ▢ Half Sheet Pan Instructions Preheat oven to 425°F. Cut the root end off of the leeks, as well as the dark green parts. Remove the outer layer and wash off any dirt. Cut into ½-inch rounds, rinsing as needed. Cut the carrots on the bias around 1/4 to 1/2 inch, depending on the thickness. They need to be slightly smaller than the leeks and equal in size to cook evenly. 1 ½ pounds leeks, 1 pound whole carrots Place the diced veggies on a sheet pan and toss with olive oil, a generous pinch of kosher salt, and freshly ground black pepper. Alternatively, use your favorite seasoning blend. 2 Tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, 1 – 1½ teaspoons kosher salt, freshly ground black pepper Bake for 25-28 minutes, tossing halfway through, until golden brown, caramelized and fork tender. Serve immediately. Enjoy! Calories: 253 kcal , Carbohydrates: 44 g , Protein: 5 g , Fat: 8 g , Saturated Fat: 1 g , Polyunsaturated Fat: 1 g , Monounsaturated Fat: 5 g , Sodium: 913 mg , Potassium: 784 mg , Fiber: 6 g , Sugar: 8 g , Vitamin A: 2838 IU , Vitamin C: 43 mg , Calcium: 115 mg , Iron: 5 mg Course: Side Dish Author: Becca Mills Cuisine: American Did you make this recipe? Please leave a star rating and review in the form below. I appreciate your feedback, and it helps others, too! Side Dish Vegetarian posted by Becca Mills on January 27, 2025 (last updated Mar 6, 2025) 2 comments Leave a comment » « Previous Post Basil’s First Autumn Next Post » 5-Minute Nacho Cheese Dip (So Easy!) 2 comments on “Sheet Pan Oven Roasted Leeks and Carrots” Leave a comment » Galit Flasterstein — October 17, 2025 @ 6:47 pm Reply Simple and perfect. I am now addicted! Becca Mills — October 18, 2025 @ 10:06 am Reply Love to hear it! Thanks for your review! 5 from 1 vote Leave a Rating & Comment Cancel reply Did you make this recipe? It would mean so much if you take a moment to leave a star rating and comment. It helps others when searching for recipes, and I love hearing how the recipe came to life in your kitchen! Thank you so much for your support! Becca Comment * Recipe Rating Recipe Rating Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Notify me if Becca replies to my comment Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Hi, I’m Becca! Welcome to Fork in the Kitchen, I’m so glad you’re here! Let’s make easy, approachable recipes and meatless meals everyone will love! Read More Follow Me: Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Search Recipes Search Reader Favorites Soft and Tender Lemon Lavender Sugar Cookies Homemade Caramel Simple Syrup (for coffee & more!) 5-Minute Whipped Ricotta Toast + Topping Ideas Chive Butter (3 ingredients!) Sign up to join the FITK community and receive exclusive recipes and weekly newsletters! Seasonal Staples Cold brew coffee Vanilla syrup recipe Whipped ricotta Queso recipe Roasted garlic aioli Vegetarian bean chili Vegetarian baked beans Vegetarian Dinners One pot gnocchi Vegetarian enchiladas Vegetarian lasagna Vegetable stir fry Vegetable lo mein Homemade cheese ravioli Vegetarian tacos From-Scratch Sauces Stir fry sauce Cilantro lime sauce Teriyaki sauce Bourbon BBQ sauce Tzatziki sauce Avocado sauce Romesco sauce ^ Back to Top Home About Contact Recipe Index Editorial Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy ©2026 Fork in the Kitchen . Design by Purr . Rate This Recipe Your vote: Name * Email * Rate and Review Recipe A rating is required A name is required An email is required Recipe Ratings without Comment Something went wrong. Please try again.